Updates to support NSwag v12 (#10148)
aspnet/Docs: aspnetcore/tutorials/getting-started-with-NSwag.md

::: moniker-end

NSwag offers the following capabilities:

> * The ability to utilize the Swagger UI and Swagger generator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * The ability to utilize the Swagger UI and Swagger generator.
```

> * Flexible code generation capabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Flexible code generation capabilities.
```

With NSwag, you don't need an existing API&mdash;you can use third-party APIs that incorporate Swagger and generate a client implementation. NSwag allows you to expedite the development cycle and easily adapt to API changes.

## Register the NSwag middleware

Register the NSwag middleware to:

> * Generate the Swagger specification for the implemented web API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Generate the Swagger specification for the implemented web API.
```

> * Serve the Swagger UI to browse and test the web API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Serve the Swagger UI to browse and test the web API.
```

## Add and configure Swagger middleware

> To add and configure Swagger middleware to your ASP.NET Core application, perform the following steps from the `Startup` class at the root of your project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Add and configure Swagger in your ASP.NET Core app by performing the following steps in the `Startup` class:
```

* Import the following namespaces:

[!code-csharp[](../tutorials/web-api-help-pages-using-swagger/samples/2.0/TodoApi.NSwag/Startup.cs?name=snippet_StartupConfigureImports)]

* In the `ConfigureServices` method, register the required Swagger services:

[!code-csharp[](../tutorials/web-api-help-pages-using-swagger/samples/2.0/TodoApi.NSwag/Startup.cs?name=snippet_ConfigureServices&highlight=8)]

> * In the `Configure` method, enable the middleware for serving the generated Swagger specification and the Swagger UI v3:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * In the `Configure` method, enable the middleware for serving the generated Swagger specification and the Swagger UI:
```

[!code-csharp[](../tutorials/web-api-help-pages-using-swagger/samples/2.0/TodoApi.NSwag/Startup.cs?name=snippet_Configure&highlight=6-7)]

> * Launch the app. Navigate to `http://localhost:<port>/swagger` to view the Swagger UI, and `http://localhost:<port>/swagger/v1/swagger.json` to view the Swagger specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Launch the app. Navigate to:
   * `http://localhost:<port>/swagger` to view the Swagger UI.
   * `http://localhost:<port>/swagger/v1/swagger.json` to view the Swagger specification.
```

## Code generation

You can take advantage of NSwag's code generation capabilities by choosing one of the following options:

> * [NSwagStudio](https://github.com/NSwag/NSwag/wiki/NSwagStudio), a Windows desktop app for generating API client code in C# or TypeScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * [NSwagStudio](https://github.com/NSwag/NSwag/wiki/NSwagStudio) &ndash; a Windows desktop app for generating API client code in C# or TypeScript.
```

> * The [NSwag.CodeGeneration.CSharp](https://www.nuget.org/packages/NSwag.CodeGeneration.CSharp/) or [NSwag.CodeGeneration.TypeScript](https://www.nuget.org/packages/NSwag.CodeGeneration.TypeScript/) NuGet packages for code generation inside your project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * The [NSwag.CodeGeneration.CSharp](https://www.nuget.org/packages/NSwag.CodeGeneration.CSharp/) or [NSwag.CodeGeneration.TypeScript](https://www.nuget.org/packages/NSwag.CodeGeneration.TypeScript/) NuGet packages for code generation inside your project.
```

* NSwag from the [command line](https://github.com/NSwag/NSwag/wiki/CommandLine).

> * The [NSwag.MSBuild](https://github.com/NSwag/NSwag/wiki/MSBuild) NuGet package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * The [NSwag.MSBuild](https://github.com/NSwag/NSwag/wiki/MSBuild) NuGet package.
```

> The following section illustrates how to generate code with the NSwagStudio app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Generate code with NSwagStudio

* Install NSwagStudio by following the instructions at the [NSwagStudio GitHub repository](https://github.com/RSuter/NSwag/wiki/NSwagStudio).

> * Launch NSwagStudio and enter the *swagger.json* file URL in the **Swagger Specification URL** textbox. For example, *http://localhost:44354/swagger/v1/swagger.json*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Launch NSwagStudio and enter the *swagger.json* file URL in the **Swagger Specification URL** text box. For example, *http://localhost:44354/swagger/v1/swagger.json*.
```

* Click the **Create local Copy** button to generate a JSON representation of your Swagger specification.

  ![Create local copy of Swagger specification](web-api-help-pages-using-swagger/_static/CreateLocalCopy-NSwagStudio.PNG)

> * In the Outputs area, click the **CSharp Client** checkbox. Depending on your project, you can also choose **TypeScript Client** or **CSharp Web API Controller**. If you select **CSharp Web API Controller**, a service specification rebuilds the service, serving as a reverse generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * In the **Outputs** area, click the **CSharp Client** check box. Depending on your project, you can also choose **TypeScript Client** or **CSharp Web API Controller**. If you select **CSharp Web API Controller**, a service specification rebuilds the service, serving as a reverse generation.
```

```

> [!TIP]

> > The C# client code is generated based on what is specified in the **Settings** tab. Modify the settings to perform tasks such as default namespace renaming and synchronous method generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 > The C# client code is generated based on selections in the **Settings** tab. Modify the settings to perform tasks such as default namespace renaming and synchronous method generation.
```

> * Copy the generated C# code into a file into a client project that will consume the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Copy the generated C# code into a file in the client project that will consume the API.
```

* Start consuming the web API:

```csharp

> var toDoClient = new TodoClient();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 var todoClient = new TodoClient();
```

// Gets all to-dos from the API

> var allToDos = await todoClient.GetAllAsync();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 var allTodos = await todoClient.GetAllAsync();
```

> // Create a new ToDoItem, and save it in the API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 // Create a new TodoItem, and save it via the API.
```

var createdTodo = await todoClient.CreateAsync(new TodoItem());

// Get a single to-do by ID
var foundTodo = await todoClient.GetByIdAsync(1);
```

## Customize API documentation

Swagger provides options for documenting the object model to ease consumption of the web API.

### API info and description

In the `Startup.ConfigureServices` method, a configuration action passed to the `AddSwaggerDocument` method adds information such as the author, license, and description:

[!code-csharp[](../tutorials/web-api-help-pages-using-swagger/samples/2.0/TodoApi.NSwag/Startup2.cs?name=snippet_AddSwaggerDocument)]

The Swagger UI displays the version's information:

![Swagger UI with version information](web-api-help-pages-using-swagger/_static/custom-info-nswag.png)

### XML comments

> To enable XML comments, perform the following steps from your preferred editor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 To enable XML comments, perform the following steps:
```

::: moniker range="<= aspnetcore-2.0"

> Because NSwag uses [reflection](/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/concepts/reflection), and the recommended return type for web API actions is [IActionResult](/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.mvc.iactionresult), it can't infer what your action is doing and what it returns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Because NSwag uses [Reflection](/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/concepts/reflection), and the recommended return type for web API actions is [IActionResult](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.IActionResult), it can't infer what your action is doing and what it returns.
```

Consider the following example:

[!code-csharp[](../tutorials/web-api-help-pages-using-swagger/samples/2.0/TodoApi.NSwag/Controllers/TodoController.cs?name=snippet_CreateAction)]

> The preceding action returns `IActionResult`, but inside the action it's returning either [CreatedAtRoute](/dotnet/api/system.web.http.apicontroller.createdatroute) or [BadRequest](/dotnet/api/system.web.http.apicontroller.badrequest). Use data annotations to tell clients which HTTP status codes this action is known to return. Decorate the action with the following attributes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The preceding action returns `IActionResult`, but inside the action it's returning either [CreatedAtRoute](xref:System.Web.Http.ApiController.CreatedAtRoute*) or [BadRequest](xref:System.Web.Http.ApiController.BadRequest*). Use data annotations to tell clients which HTTP status codes this action is known to return. Decorate the action with the following attributes:
```

[!code-csharp[](../tutorials/web-api-help-pages-using-swagger/samples/2.0/TodoApi.NSwag/Controllers/TodoController.cs?name=snippet_CreateActionAttributes)]

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-2.1"

> Because NSwag uses [reflection](/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/concepts/reflection), and the recommended return type for web API actions is [ActionResult\<T>](/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.mvc.actionresult-1), it can only infer the return type defined by `T`. You can't automatically infer other possible return types. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Because NSwag uses [Reflection](/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/concepts/reflection), and the recommended return type for web API actions is [ActionResult\<T>](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ActionResult`1), it can only infer the return type defined by `T`. You can't automatically infer other possible return types. 
```

Consider the following example:

[!code-csharp[](../tutorials/web-api-help-pages-using-swagger/samples/2.1/TodoApi.NSwag/Controllers/TodoController.cs?name=snippet_CreateAction)]

The preceding action returns `ActionResult<T>`. Inside the action, it's returning [CreatedAtRoute](xref:System.Web.Http.ApiController.CreatedAtRoute*). Since the controller is decorated with the [[ApiController]](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ApiControllerAttribute) attribute, a [BadRequest](xref:System.Web.Http.ApiController.BadRequest*) response is possible, too. For more information, see [Automatic HTTP 400 responses](xref:web-api/index#automatic-http-400-responses). Use data annotations to tell clients which HTTP status codes this action is known to return. Decorate the action with the following attributes:

[!code-csharp[](../tutorials/web-api-help-pages-using-swagger/samples/2.1/TodoApi.NSwag/Controllers/TodoController.cs?name=snippet_CreateActionAttributes)]

In ASP.NET Core 2.2 or later, you can use conventions instead of explicitly decorating individual actions with `[ProducesResponseType]`. For more information, see <xref:web-api/advanced/conventions>.

::: moniker-end

> The Swagger generator can now accurately describe this action, and generated clients know what they receive when calling the endpoint. It's highly recommended to decorate all actions with these attributes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The Swagger generator can now accurately describe this action, and generated clients know what they receive when calling the endpoint. As a recommendation, decorate all actions with these attributes. 
```
